Transition to targets (staying on separate branch for now) (#65)
USGS-R/ds-pipelines-1-course: responses/30-makefile-anatomy.md

> Our `targets` pipelines in R use a `makefile` file to "orchestrate" the connections among files, functions, and phases. In this issue, we're going to develop a basic understanding of how these files work, starting with the anatomy of the `_targets.R` file.

Reviewer: So you're comfortable with "makefile" to describe these files? I think I am, too, but see my musings in "210331 Curriculum transition to targets.docx".

```suggestion
Our `targets` pipelines in R use a `makefile` file to orchestrate the connections among files, functions, and phases. In this issue, we're going to develop a basic understanding of how these files work, starting with the anatomy of the `_targets.R` file.
```

Author: I am comfortable with this terminology (I did respond to that docx comment, I think). We need some way to refer to these files and `makefile` isn't wrong; I just thought that was reserved for ",yml" files, specifically. I also didn't realize that my title change was suggesting that I was proposing a whole new way of describing these files :)

Reviewer: Huh, weird, I still don't see your response in the docx -- oh well, such is O365. I don't think we had established a specific way of describing them yet, so the field was wide open, and I'm content with "makefile" - especially now that you've reminded me that we show Karl Broman's video first.

#### Setting up a `targets` data science pipeline

> In addition to phases (which we covered in {{ store.structure_activity_url }}), it is important to decompose high-level concepts (or existing scripts) into thoughtful functions and "targets" that form the building blocks of data processing pipelines. A target is a noun we use to describe a tangible output of function, which is often a file or an R object. Targets can be used as an end-product (like a summary map) or as input _into_ another function to create _another_ target. 

Reviewer: This paragraph has a lot of redundancy with the background to responses/12-function-activity.md at https://github.com/USGS-R/ds-pipelines-1-course/pull/65/files#diff-69cc741de35a76fc837aa323ef9db90a5b0b23364ea6c04324a16fe1adfab155R5. Do we need/want the duplication?

Reviewer 2: Yeah that seems unnecessary to repeat. But repetition can help with learning ...

Author: I am OK with the duplication since it is such a critical piece of this workflow. I don't think it hurts to read about again in slightly different langauge.

> To setup a `targets` pipeline, you will need to setup the base makefile named `_targets.R` that will declare and orchestrate the rest of the pipeline connections.

Reviewer: Merriam-Webster says it's `set up` when it's a verb (and only `setup` when it's a noun): https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/setup

---
The simplest version of `_targets.R` might look something like this:

```r
library(targets)
source("code.R")
tar_option_set(packages = c("tidyverse", "stringr", "sbtools", "whisker"))

list(
  tar_target(
    model_RMSEs_csv,
    download_data(out_filepath = "model_RMSEs.csv"),
    format = "file"
  ), 
  tar_target(
    plot_data,
    process_data(in_filepath = model_RMSEs_csv),
  ),
  tar_target(
    figure_1_png,
    make_plot(out_filepath = "figure_1.png", data = plot_data), 
    format = "file"
  )
)
```

> This file defines the relationships between different "targets" (see how the target `model_RMSEs_csv` is an input to the command that creates the target `plot_data`?), tells us where to find any functions that are used to build targets (see the `source` call that points you to `code.R`), and declares the package dependencies needed to build the different targets (see the `target_option_set` command that passes in a vector of packages). 

Reviewer: Interested in thoughts from others on adopting the convention of target names like `model_RMSEs_csv` vs `model_RMSEs.csv` - preference?

Reviewer 2: I think I prefer `model_RMSEs_csv` rather than `model_RMSEs.csv` - the later makes it seem like the file name is called `RMSEs.csv` when it might not always be the case (e.g. when file names are long and you don't include the whole file name in the target name)

Reviewer: Works for me. There's also the case of `model_RMSEs_csvs`, `modeled_sites_shapefile`, etc. where we'll need to deviate from a simple extension anyway because the target represents multiple files, possibly having multiple extensions. In those cases it also seems nice to have a very clearly symbolic target name. (Not saying these should be introduced in this course, just that our convention ought to be able to accommodate these multi-file targets.)

Author: Related to this was the topic of using quotes when initially setting the name of the target. I would personally like to make a plug against that practice since it would mean that sometimes you quote the target name and other times you don't.

Reviewer: Ah, good point. I think at the very least I can see a case for using unquoted target names throughout these training modules. Perhaps we introduce the quoting option in ds-pipelines-2, tips and tricks, but then use unquoted everywhere else?
    We (Jake, Sam, and I) had discussed adding quotes to current pipelines because they do make the target name pop out visually a bit better, and it's nice to be able to quickly spot the target names in a makefile, but (1) adding quotes is an imperfect solution, and targets will never be quite as lovely as the remake.yml version in this respect (unless RStudio adds special syntax highlighting for targets someday), and (2) my own efficiency in skimming for unquoted target names has  improved with experience, so maybe this is just a growing pain and we'll all be comfortable with unquoted someday.

We'll briefly explain some of the functions and conventions used here. For more extensive explanations, visit [the `targets` documentation](https://books.ropensci.org/targets/walkthrough.html). 

>   - As you would with normal R scripts, put any `source` commands for loading R files and `library` commands for loading packages with functions used by subsequent code at the top of the file. 

Reviewer: I don't think this is quite clear enough -  `library()` calls at the top of `_targets.R` should only be for those packages used by `targets` or `tarchetypes` to construct the targets plan. So if you create an R object within `_targets.R` that gets used to make a plan, then cool, include any `library()` calls needed to create that R object. And you call `library(tarchetypes)` often because that's where `tar_map()` and `tar_files()` come from. But if one of your targets uses `ggplot2` to build a plot, then `ggplot2` should be declared in `tar_option_set(packages)` or `tar_target(..., packages)` instead.

Author: I think your suggested edits to this fixes these concerns. See the updates in this commit: https://github.com/USGS-R/ds-pipelines-1-course/pull/65/commits/638d30738c1cdf7ebad9ff249aeb8ec86bc312f2

Reviewer: Yep, I like it :+1:

>   - As you would with normal R scripts, put any `source` commands for loading R files and `library` commands for loading packages with functions used by subsequent code at the top of the file. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - As you would with normal R scripts, put any `source` commands for loading R files and `library` commands for loading packages at the top of the file. The packages loaded here should be only those needed to build the targets _plan_; packages needed to build specific _targets_ can be loaded later.
```

>   - Declare each target by using the function `tar_target` and passing in a target name (`name` arg) and the expression to run to build the target (`command` arg).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - Declare each target by using the function `tar_target()` and passing in a target name (`name` arg) and the expression to run to build the target (`command` arg).
```

>   - There are two types of targets - objects and files. If your target is a file, you need to add `format = "file"` to your `tar_targets` call and the command needs to return the filename of the new file.

Reviewer: We should save for later the idea that a single target can be multiple files, right?

Author: This is the `tar_map`-type of approach right? If so, then yes I think that will come in during Pipelines III.

Reviewer: Glad it'll be getting introduced, and totally comfortable with it happening later. But note that multiple files wouldn't _need_ to be the result of a `tar_map` - for example, you might download a single shapefile and store it as a vector of component file names.

  - Setup the full pipeline by combining all targets into a single `list` object.

>   - There are 2 ways to define packages used by targets: 1) declare using the `packages` argument in `tar_option_set` in your makefile to specify packages used by all targets or 2) use the `packages` argument in individual `tar_target` functions for packages that may be special to specific targets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - There are 2 ways to define packages used to build targets: 1) declare using the `packages` argument in `tar_option_set` in your makefile to specify packages used by all targets or 2) use the `packages` argument in individual `tar_target` functions for packages that are specific to those targets.
```

>   - There are 2 ways to define packages used by targets: 1) declare using the `packages` argument in `tar_option_set` in your makefile to specify packages used by all targets or 2) use the `packages` argument in individual `tar_target` functions for packages that may be special to specific targets.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - There are 2 ways to define packages used by targets: 1) declare using the `packages` argument in `tar_option_set()` in your makefile to specify packages used by all targets or 2) use the `packages` argument in individual `tar_target()` functions for packages that may be special to specific targets.
```
I find it easier to see what is a function if there are parentheses included for references to the function calls

>   - `model_RMSEs_csv` shows up two times, why? `model_RMSEs_csv` is the name of a target that creates the file, `model_RMSEs.csv`, when the command `download_data` is run. When passed in as input to other functions (unquoted), it represents the filename of the file that was created when it was built. So when `model_RMSEs_csv` shows up as an _input_ to another function, `process_data`, it is really passing in the filename. So the `process_data` function must read and then change the data (or "process" it) in some way. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - `model_RMSEs_csv` shows up two times - why? `model_RMSEs_csv` is the name of a target that creates the file `model_RMSEs.csv` when the command `download_data` is run. When passed in as input to other functions (unquoted), it represents the filename of the file that was created when it was built. So when `model_RMSEs_csv` shows up as an _argument_ to another function, `process_data`, it is really passing in the filename. The `process_data` function then reads the file and changes the data (or "processes" it) in some way. 
```

>   - `model_RMSEs_csv` shows up two times, why? `model_RMSEs_csv` is the name of a target that creates the file, `model_RMSEs.csv`, when the command `download_data` is run. When passed in as input to other functions (unquoted), it represents the filename of the file that was created when it was built. So when `model_RMSEs_csv` shows up as an _input_ to another function, `process_data`, it is really passing in the filename. So the `process_data` function must read and then change the data (or "process" it) in some way. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - `model_RMSEs_csv` shows up two times, why? `model_RMSEs_csv` is the name of a target that creates the file, `model_RMSEs.csv`, when the command `download_data()` is run. When passed in as input to other functions (unquoted), it represents the filename of the file that was created when it was built. So when `model_RMSEs_csv` shows up as an _input_ to another function, `process_data()`, it is really passing in the filename. So the `process_data` function must read and then change the data (or "process" it) in some way. 
```
